README.md, before:

# Auto-Files Gateway

This service is used for retrieving already archived files from the Autonomy's Decentralized Storage Network (DSN). For retrieving files these should be formatted complying the format in [`@autonomys/auto-dag-data`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@autonomys/auto-dag-data) and files should be already archived.

## FAQs

- **What does it mean for a file to be archived?:** When a file is uploaded to Autonomy’s network as a series of transactions, it is not immediately distributed as segmented pieces from which farmers generate storage proofs. There's some variable delay between the transaction submission and the file availability that depends on the network congestion among other factors.

## How it works?

The flow illustrates how a file retrieval is performed in **Files Gateway**:.

- When a **user requests a specific content identifier (CID)**, the **File Retriever** coordinates the process by querying various indexers to obtain both metadata and storage location details.
- The **Object Indexer** and **DAG Indexer** maintain a constantly updated map of where data resides across the network and how it is structured within content-addressable graphs.
- Once the necessary information is gathered, the **Gateway** and participating **Nodes** manage the actual data transfer, retrieving the requested file from the decentralized storage and delivering it back to the user efficiently and securely.
- This coordinated interaction ensures that even though data is stored in a distributed manner, retrieval remains seamless and transparent to the end user.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant FileRetriever as FILE-RETRIEVER
    participant ObjectIndexer as ObjectIndexer
    participant DAGIndexer as DAGIndexer
    participant Gateway as GATEWAY
    participant Node as NODE

    User->>FileRetriever: 1. Asks for a CID
    FileRetriever->>DAGIndexer: 2. Requests the list of nodes needed<br/> for retrieving the requested CID (partial retrieval posibly)
    FileRetriever->>ObjectIndexer: 3. Requests the position of the object on the DSN
    Note over ObjectIndexer: Listens to every object upload,<br/>saving its position in the DSN<br/>for use during file download.
    Note over DAGIndexer: Listens to every "System.remark" extrinsic,<br/> and decodes saving IPLD metadata.
    FileRetriever->>Gateway: 4. Fetches the object using<br/>the Subspace Gateway
    Node->>ObjectIndexer: Sends object mappings
    Node->>DAGIndexer: Sends blocks
    Gateway->>Node: Retrieve object metadata from the node
```

For a more detailed over on each service check out:

- [File retriever](docs/file-retriever.md)
- [DAG Indexer](docs/dag-indexer.md)
- [Object Mapping Indexer](docs/object-mapping-indexer.md)
- [Subspace Node & Gateway](https://github.com/autonomys/subspace)

Commit message:

docs: add 'Getting Started' section with local development guide to README

README.md, after:

# Auto-Files Gateway

This service is used for retrieving already archived files from the Autonomy's Decentralized Storage Network (DSN). For retrieving files these should be formatted complying the format in [`@autonomys/auto-dag-data`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@autonomys/auto-dag-data) and files should be already archived.

## FAQs

- **What does it mean for a file to be archived?:** When a file is uploaded to Autonomy’s network as a series of transactions, it is not immediately distributed as segmented pieces from which farmers generate storage proofs. There's some variable delay between the transaction submission and the file availability that depends on the network congestion among other factors.

## How it works?

The flow illustrates how a file retrieval is performed in **Files Gateway**:.

- When a **user requests a specific content identifier (CID)**, the **File Retriever** coordinates the process by querying various indexers to obtain both metadata and storage location details.
- The **Object Indexer** and **DAG Indexer** maintain a constantly updated map of where data resides across the network and how it is structured within content-addressable graphs.
- Once the necessary information is gathered, the **Gateway** and participating **Nodes** manage the actual data transfer, retrieving the requested file from the decentralized storage and delivering it back to the user efficiently and securely.
- This coordinated interaction ensures that even though data is stored in a distributed manner, retrieval remains seamless and transparent to the end user.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant FileRetriever as FILE-RETRIEVER
    participant ObjectIndexer as ObjectIndexer
    participant DAGIndexer as DAGIndexer
    participant Gateway as GATEWAY
    participant Node as NODE

    User->>FileRetriever: 1. Asks for a CID
    FileRetriever->>DAGIndexer: 2. Requests the list of nodes needed<br/> for retrieving the requested CID (partial retrieval posibly)
    FileRetriever->>ObjectIndexer: 3. Requests the position of the object on the DSN
    Note over ObjectIndexer: Listens to every object upload,<br/>saving its position in the DSN<br/>for use during file download.
    Note over DAGIndexer: Listens to every "System.remark" extrinsic,<br/> and decodes saving IPLD metadata.
    FileRetriever->>Gateway: 4. Fetches the object using<br/>the Subspace Gateway
    Node->>ObjectIndexer: Sends object mappings
    Node->>DAGIndexer: Sends blocks
    Gateway->>Node: Retrieve object metadata from the node
```

## Getting Started

- [Local Development Guide](docs/development.md) - Run the gateway locally for development

For a more detailed over on each service check out:

- [File retriever](docs/file-retriever.md)
- [DAG Indexer](docs/dag-indexer.md)
- [Object Mapping Indexer](docs/object-mapping-indexer.md)
- [Subspace Node & Gateway](https://github.com/autonomys/subspace)
